Add video reference docs (#7533)
rerun-io/rerun: docs/content/concepts/video.md

---

> title: Video
> order: 2000
> ---
> 
> ## Video in Rerun

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Video in Rerun
order: 2000
---

```

A stream of images (like those produced by a camera) can be logged to Rerun in several different ways:

* Uncompressed, as many [`Image`](../reference/types/archetypes/image.md)s
* Compressed as many [`EncodedImage`](../reference/types/archetypes/encoded_image.md)s, using e.g. JPEG-encoding

> * Compressed as a single [`AssetVideo`](../reference/types/archetypes/asset_video.md), using e.g. MP4 and AV1 or H.264.

Reviewer 2: not sure if codecs should be listed here - that's easy to outdate and also not complete already

When choosing a codec, we recommend [AV1](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Media/Formats/Video_codecs#av1), as that seems to have the best overall playback support. Since AV1 is patent-free, it is also likely the first codec we will support in the native viewer.

For decoding video in the Web Viewer, we use the [WebCodecs API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebCodecs_API).
This API enables us to take advantage of the browser's hardware accelerated video decoding capabilities.
It is implemented by all modern browsers, but with varying levels of support for different codecs, and varying levels of quality.

With that in mind, here are the browsers which we have tested and verified to work:

|            | Linux  | macOS | Windows |
| ---------- | ------ | ----- | ------- |
| Firefox    | ✅[^1] | ✅    | ✅      |
| Chrome[^2] | ✅     | ✅    | ✅[^3]  |
| Safari     |        | ✅    |         |

[^1]: Firefox on Linux has been observed to [stutter when playing back H.264 video](https://github.com/rerun-io/rerun/issues/7532)
[^2]: Any Chromium-based browser should work, but we don't test all of them.

> [^3]: Chrome on Windows has also been observed to stutter when playing back H.264 video. It can be mitigated by [using software rendering](https://rerun.io/docs/getting-started/troubleshooting#video-stuttering)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[^3]: Chrome on Windows has also been observed to stutter on playback. It can be mitigated by [using software decoding](https://rerun.io/docs/getting-started/troubleshooting#video-stuttering)
```

stuttering on my machine was 100% universal on all videos I tried no matter the codec :(
changing `rendering` to `decoding` here because Rerun itself can do software rendering on native

When it comes to codecs, we aim to support any codec which the browser supports, but
we currently cannot guarantee that all of them will work. For more information about
which codecs are supported by which browser, see [Video codecs on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Media/Formats/Video_codecs#codec_details).

At the moment, we test the following codecs:

|       | Linux | macOS   | Windows |
| ----- | ----- | ------- | ------- |
| AV1   | ✅    | 🚧[^4]  | ✅      |
| H.264 | ✅    | ✅      | ✅      |

> [^4]: Safari/WebKit does not support AV1 decoding except on [Apple Silicon devices with hardware support](https://webkit.org/blog/14445/webkit-features-in-safari-17-0/). Chromium and Firefox use software fallbacks, but at the moment Safari rejects the video entirely.

Reviewer 2: the bit on software fallbacks for chromium may well be true but it's curious that "hardware decoding" setting on windows still has an effect on my machine. Maybe we should just leave this detail out lest we write something that's inaccurate
